The ability of vessels to expand and contract to accommodate blood pressure fluctuations is known as ______________.
a.hemoglobin stability
b.vascular compliance
c.cardiovascular sequencing
d.angiogenesis
b


Which of the following actions would have the greatest positive impact on your client's health and well-being?
a.loss of five (5) pounds
b.increasing VO2max by 3.5 ml/kg/min
c.lowering systolic blood pressure by five point (5) mmHg
d.quitting smoking
d


Hypertension causes a cascade of events that lead to the blockage of arteries from plaque termed ________.
a.hyperglycemia
b.hyperlipidemia
c.dyslipidemia
d.atherosclerosis
d


Your client was advised by her physician to begin an exercise program to reduce her high blood pressure. During her last evaluation it was measured at 141/92 mmHg. After 3 months of regular aerobic activity, what is a realistic blood pressure measurement to expect upon re-evaluation?
a.110/78 mmHg
b.117/68 mmHg
c.122/74 mmHg
d.130/84 mmHg
d


What type of fat storage is considered a high risk factor for cardiovascular disease?
a.intramuscular
b.visceral
c.subcutaneous
d.retro-peritoneal
b


VO2max correlates to both disease risk and lifespan making __________ the most important type of exercise for health.
a.resistance training
b.flexibility training
c.cardiovascular training
d.functional training
c


Why does a high-sugar diet increase the risk for obesity?
a.sugar is stored in fat cells
b.sugar is not easily digested
c.sugar increases insulin which inhibits lipolysis
d.sugar causes the pancreas to produce fat
c


When programming resistance training, general guidelines all suggest the minimum frequency for total-body work is ____ per week?
a.once
b.twice
c.four times
d.most days
b


While health maintenance requires physical activity equivalents of 1,000 kcal per week, for fitness-level protection that number increases to ______ kcals per week.
a.1,250
b.1,500
c.1,750
d.2,000
d


Which is a key performance-related component of fitness for active aging?
a.muscular strength
b.muscular endurance
c.muscular hypertrophy
d.muscular power
d


Routine, moderate-intensity jogging will have what affect on one's blood lipid profile?
a.VLDL will increase
b.LDL will increase
c.HDL will increase
d.aerobic exercise does not affect circulating cholesterol
c


Which of the following would have the greatest impact on health for an individual who is overweight and inactive?
a.increasing protein intake
b.taking antioxidants
c.using a standing desk at work
d.adding daily physical activity
d


What is the correct movement of the glenohumeral joint during the tricep pushdown exercise?
a.dorsi flexion
b.no joint movement
c.extension
d.abduction
b


What is the dual-action muscle of the quadriceps; allowing it to act upon both the hip and knee joints?
a.vastus lateralis
b.biceps femoris
c.vastus intermedius
d.rectus femoris
d


What is the term used to describe the natural curvature of the cervical and lumbar spine?
a.lordotic
b.kyphotic
c.sciatic
d.thoracic
a


All of the following are rotator cuff muscles, except:
a.infraspinatus
b.supraspinatus
c.levator scapulae
d.subscapularis
c


Which muscle is responsible for the first 30 degrees of trunk flexion and is targeted during the crunch movement?
a.obliques
b.iliopsoas
c.erector spinae
d.rectus abdominis
d


When the hip and knee are fully flexed as seen in the single-leg squat (Bulgarian squat), what hip extensor is the prime mover?
a.gluteus maximus
b.biceps femoris
c.rectus femoris
d.iliopsoas
a


What muscle acts as the agonist during performance of the Romanian deadlift?
a.shoulders
b.pectoralis
c.hamstrings
d.rhomboids
c


During the descent phase of the standing barbell curl, the biceps contract _________.
a.concentrically
b.eccentrically
c.isometrically
d.isokinetically
b


The prime mover of the dumbbell side raise exercise is the ______________.
a.trapezius
b.infraspinatus
c.levator scapulae
d.deltoid
d


Retraction of the scapula during the seated row is caused by:
a.concentric contraction of the pectoralis major
b.concentric contraction of the rhomboids
c.eccentric contraction of the latissimus dorsi
d.eccentric contraction of the erector spinae
b


The majority of back injuries from incorrect lifting occur between which segments of the spine?
a.cervical and thoracic
b.thoracic and lumbar
c.lumbar and sacrum
d.sacrum and coccyx
c


__________ refers to a spatial familiarity from improvements in the nervous system.
a.Proprioception
b.The motor axis
c.The kinetic chain
d.Ballistic movements
a


The deltoid becomes the primary abductor of the humerus beginning at what joint angle; reducing involvement of the rotator cuff?
a.5°
b.15°
c.30°
d.45°
c


The performance of a lunge with forward press on a cable machine occurs in which movement plane?
a.sagittal
b.transverse
c.frontal
d.anterior
a


Which of the following muscles cause movement in the frontal plane?
a.tensor fascia latae
b.quadratus lumborum
c.supraspinatus
d.All of the above
d


To avoid tibial translation (knee crossing the toe) during the forward lunge exercise, clients should be cued to:
a.lean backward and push the hips forward
b.take a broader step and push the back leg downward
c.lean forward and push the hips backward
d.pre-stretch the quadriceps and the glutes
b


What would increase the proprioception requirement of the traditional lunge exercise?
a.switching the weight from a barbell to dumbbells
b.perform it with more weight
c.moving backward instead of forward
d.placing hands behind the head
c


What muscle group is targeted when performing the front squat?
a.quadriceps
b.hamstrings
c.adductors
d.abductors
a


Choose the exercise that would be used for increasing hip power.
a.leg press
b.overhead squat
c.alternating jump lunges
d.Romanian deadlift
c


What location on the body is used to spot the chin-up exercise?
a.Hands on the ankles when knees are flexed
b.Hands on the thighs and lower limbs
c.Hands at the waist
d.Hands at the lats
c


What is the most common error in the deadlift exercise that causes the back to round?
a.Too much weight is used
b.Extending the knees before the hips
c.Starting too far back from the bar
d.All the above
d


Using integrated movement patterns for improved movement and performance is termed ____________.
a.Functional training
b.Flow training
c.Isolation training
d.Cross training
a


Which of the following exercises represents an inappropriate use of training equipment?
a.Bench press on a Smith machine
b.Jump squats on a Smith machine
c.Supine leg press using a Smith machine
d.All the above
c


What should be avoided for a 47 year-old client that has osteoarthritis in their knee?
a.Box jumps
b.Plyometrics
c.Running
d.All the above
d


Why is performance negatively affected when training in a hot, humid environment?
a.blood pressure increases
b.heart rate decreases
c.fluid loss increases
d.All the above
c


How can the stiff-legged deadlift pictured be adjusted to a proper Romanian deadlift?
a.the ankles should be more dorsi-flexed and hips forward
b.the hips should be further flexed and the weight moved forward
c.the knees should be further extended and shoulders elevated
d.the back should be flat and knees slightly flexed
d


Your 72 year-old male client is experiencing kyphotic exaggeration (kyphosis) in his thoracic spine. What is the correct programmatic selection?
a.increase overhead lifting movements to mobilize the shoulders and stretch the upper back
b.increase pulling movements such as back flies and rows
c.train the upper body with dumbbells instead of barbell presses to increase ROM
d.increase the use of abdominal exercises to strengthen the core
b


What muscle is trained during humeral adduction in the frontal plane?
a.Supraspinatus
b.Medial deltoid
c.Latissimus dorsi
d.Trapezius
c


What is the correct spotting technique for the lat pull-down?
a.Spot at the humerus
b.Spot at the wrists
c.Spot at the bar
d.Spot at the weight stack
c


What is the position of the lumbar spine during proper performance of the bent-over row exercise?
a.scoliotic curve
b.kyphotic curve
c.lordotic curve
d.anterior curve
c


Your client wants to increase the size of his gastrocnemius, what exercise would you recommend?
a.standing calf raise
b.leg curls
c.seated calf raise
d.weighted toe raise
a


What type of training reduces the risk of osteoporosis?
a.machine-based resistance exercises
b.free-weight compound movements
c.power-based training
d.All the above
d


You observe your client having difficulty performing a 90° step-up. Specifically, he is leaning forward and not fully extending his legs. What is the correct course of action?
a.have the client swing his arms to aid in momentum
b.have the client move slower and focus on pushing through the balls of his feet
c.have the client hold a light medicine ball at the chest to help them remain upright
d.reduce the step height so his knee angle is lower
d


What exercise can be used to stretch the adductors of the hip?
a.Forward lunge
b.Lateral lunge
c.Reverse lunge
d.All the above
b


What exercise causes horizontal adduction of the shoulder complex?
a.Push-up
b.Pull-up
c.Seated row
d.Front raise
a


The front and back squat require the spotter to squat in sync with the exerciser with their hands on:
a.their waist
b.the bar
c.their chest
d.the lateral aspects of their rib cage
d


What represents an exercise regression?
a.pull-up to a chin-up
b.back squat to front squat
c.barbell bench press to dumbbell bench press
d.chest dips to push-ups
d


Spotting heavy bench presses requires a _______________ grip.
a.Supinated
b.Pronated
c.Alternate
d.Wide
c


Which spotting technique is correct for dumbbell flies?
a.Spot the humerus
b.Spot the forearms
c.Spot the dumbbells
d.Flyes do not require a spot
b


The mechanism known as reciprocal inhibition will cause the _________ to relax when performing a triceps push-down.
a.posterior deltoid
b.biceps brachii
c.pectoralis major
d.latissimus dorsi
b


Which of the following exercises could be categorized as a dynamic flexibility activity for the hip flexors?
a.back squat
b.seated leg curl
c.walking lunge
d.box step-ups
c


What is the purpose of programming a drop or strip set in an exercise bout?
a.to increase power
b.to increase muscular endurance
c.to increase flexibility
d.to increase muscle fiber recruitment
d


Delayed-onset muscle soreness is common among new exercisers who perform resistance training and is often experienced _________.
a.within 12-24 hours following exercise
b.immediately after exercise ends
c.within 48-72 hours following exercise
d.within 48 hours following exercise
d


Low-intensity aerobic training programs are ineffective for reducing body fat among physically-active clients because of the ______________?
a.low rate of caloric expenditure
b.high rate of lactic acid production
c.low turnover of ATP
d.high bodily protein degradation
a


When prescribing exercise to improve movement efficiency and proprioception, the emphasis should be placed on:
a.neural rehearsal via movement practice
b.antagonist inhibition via active-isolation stretching
c.central stability using overhead training
d.improved balance using unilateral training
d


What is the minimal rest time needed between broad jump assessments to fully replenish ATP stores?
a.15 seconds
b.30 seconds
c.45 seconds
d.90 seconds
d


Blood pressure is a product of which two factors?
a.capillary density and glycogen storage
b.VO2max and stroke volume
c.cellular respiration and heart rate
d.heart rate and peripheral resistance
d


Initial improvements in strength associated with resistance training are primarily due to ___________ as it is the first system to adapt to exercise.
a.improvements in the nervous system
b.cardiovascular system adjustments
c.reduced endocrine system responses
d.delayed onset of fatigue due to reduced heart rate responses
a


The breakdown of what biological energy source results in the production of lactic acid?
a.ATP
b.glucose
c.creatine phosphate
d.amino acids
b


What byproduct of glycolysis enters the blood, triggering an elevation in respiration rate as concentrations rise?
a.acytel CoA
b.nitrogen
c.creatine
d.lactic acid
d


The only energy substrate that can be metabolized aerobically or anaerobically to produce ATP is _________?
a.glycogen
b.amino acids
c.triglycerides
d.complete proteins
a


Which of the following have the potential to reduce power output when performed pre-exercise?
a.dynamic warm-up
b.ballistics
c.static stretching
d.all of the above
c


Which of the following are responsible for preparing a body segment for oncoming force via a static muscle contraction?
a.isometric contractions
b.eccentric contractions
c.isotonic contractions
d.concentric contractions
a


After completing a 6-week program using resistance circuits and aerobic interval training, your client's resting heart rate decreased by eight (8) beats. What has most likely caused this reduction?
a.increased bone density
b.increased stroke volume
c.increased type I fiber production
d.increased capillary density
b


When performing a squat assessment on a new client, an exercise professional must first:
a.calculate his lifting weight
b.properly screen him for exercise
c.complete a 24-hour dietary recall
d.test his ability to perform a body squat
b


When constructing an exercise prescription for an obese client, which of the following is an important recommendation?
a.increase high-impact plyometric training to maximize caloric burn
b.focus on maximal heavy resistance training above 90% 1RM initially
c.use only static stretching as the primary mode of exercise
d.select low-impact activities during aerobic exercise to minimize the risk of injury
d


What is the proper assessment technique when measuring heart rate using the radial pulse?
a.placing your dominant thumb on their wrist under their thumb
b.placing your index and middle finger along the thumb side of the wrist
c.gripping the client's wrist with your hand just proximal to the palm
d.placing two fingers against the neck anterior to the sternocleidomastoid
b


One of your clients is taking medication for his hypertension. Based on this information, which of the following program components should be avoided in his exercise program?
a.leg press with heavy resistance
b.aerobic training most days of the week
c.seated cable pull-downs performed for 20 repetitions
d.moderate-intensity jogging intervals on the treadmill
a


The purpose of the informed consent document is to have the client:
a.list all current medications they are taking
b.agree to the assumed risks of their exercise participation
c.outline their previous injuries and related risks
d.describe their current goals and programmatic needs
b


During the administration of the Health Status Questionnaire (HSQ) your client reveals that she had shoulder surgery to repair a damaged rotator cuff. What is the correct course of action?
a.require her to obtain medical clearance before continuing
b.train only her surgically-repaired shoulder until it equals the strength of the other shoulder
c.avoid any overhead exercises so as to not further damage the shoulder
d.obtain additional information about the injury to guide your decision
d


Your client discloses on the Health Status Questionnaire (HSQ) that he is taking a commonly-prescribed beta blocker to treat his high blood pressure. What effect, if any, will this have on his training?
a.it will not affect his training at all
b.he will need to increase the duration of the warm-up segment before each session
c.his heart rate and cardiac output will be decreased during exercise
d.his blood pressure will rise above average during exercise; therefore, lifting in a supine position should be avoided
c


________ is defined as an insufficient supply of O2 to a given tissue(s).
a.Cardiac output
b.Ischemia
c.Atherosclerosis
d.Hypertension
b


What are you actually assessing with a maximal-repetition exercise test that exceeds 15 repetitions?
a.anaerobic power
b.aerobic power
c.aerobic endurance
d.anaerobic endurance
d


A client mentions that she is experiencing pain in her right knee during the extension phase of the lunge during repeat sets of the exercise. What is the correct course of action?
a.have the client decrease the range of motion during the remaining set
b.stop the exercise session and refer her to a medical professional
c.stop performing the exercise, document the issue, and closely monitor the joint rest of the session
d.inform the client that discomfort during resistance training is normal and it will subside
c


The Health Status Questionnaire (HSQ) provides a trainer with all of the following pieces of information about their client, except:
a.medications being taken
b.previous injuries
c.nutritional intake
d.lifestyle behaviors
c


Which of the following would be a violation of the personal trainer code of ethics?
a.diagnosing an injury and writing a rehab program targeting specific improvements
b.completing continuing education coursework for recertification using an online test
c.reading the journal of an organization with whom the professional is not certified
d.reporting a conflict of interest with a client to an employer
a


Which of the following scales is used to assess an individual's perception of the intensity and difficulty of the exercise?
a.Linear scale
b.Upper stress scale
c.RPE scale
d.Nominal scale
c


Which of the following maximal assessments is appropriate for a 13 year-old exerciser?
a.Multi-rep bench press test to failure
b.One mile run test
c.Yo-Yo beep test
d.All the above are appropriate
b


Your client hurts his shoulder during a pressing exercise. He is in noticeable pain but wants to continue working out. What is the correct course of action?
a.Stretch the shoulder and lighten the weight before continuing
b.Provide him with an anti-inflammatory if available, and switch to leg exercises
c.Evaluate the injury and attempt to diagnose the problem before making a decision
d.Recommend he should have a medical professional analyze the injury and document the incident
d


During an evaluation, after 12 weeks of regular training, your client's resting blood pressure increased from 145/96 to 151/108 following repeat measures. What is the correct course of action to take based on this value?
a.reduce the training volume to two days of resistance training each week
b.decrease the frequency of cardiovascular activities he performs each week
c.refer him to his physician for a medical review
d.monitor his diet for caffeine and alcohol consumption
c


Which of the following is a required characteristic of a legitimate professional credential?
a.periodic renewal of a certification through continued education
b.maintaining the organization's professional membership
c.purchasing liability insurance
d.all of the above
a


Your male client has the following measures - which one indicates a medical referral prior to exercise participation?
a.blood pressure of 140/90
b.resting heart rate of 110 bpm
c.waist circumference of 36 inches
d.cholesterol of 185 mg/dL
b


When performing a test, what would enhance the validity of the measure?
a.Video recording the test
b.Practicing the test beforehand
c.Providing motivational music
d.Ensuring it was done on an empty stomach
b


Due to the duration of time for most strength adaptations to occur, re-evaluation time frames are normally:
a.2-4 weeks
b.6-8 weeks
c.10-12 weeks
d.14-16 weeks
b


Client files should be maintained for at least 3 years due to:
a.The likelihood they return to training
b.Reference for training others of similar need
c.The statutes of liability limitations can carry out that long
d.Cases in which the documents are needed by law
c


Which of the following is an example of a realistic short-term goal?
a.weight loss of 5 lbs.
b.lean mass gain of 5 lbs.
c.improved bench press performance by 25%
d.decrease body fat from 20% to 15%
a


What electrolyte (mineral) balances the negative effects of sodium to aid in managing the blood pressure response of hypertensive individuals?
a.Calcium
b.Iron
c.Potassium
d.Zinc
c


What nutrient provides the least amount of energy to the body during exercise?
a.Carbohydrates
b.Protein
c.Fats
d.All are used equally
b


It is recommended that individuals attempting to maintain a healthy diet consume ________ of fiber each day.
a.5-10 grams
b.12-18 grams
c.20-35 grams
d.at least 40 grams
c


Recommendations for daily saturated fat intake is up to _______ of total calories.
a.5%
b.10%
c.20%
d.30%
b


A food label for a nutritional bar indicates that it contains 7 grams of fat. If the entire bar is eaten, how many calories will be consumed from fat?
a.7 calories
b.28 calories
c.63 calories
d.112 calories
c


Your client read in an online article that taking a vitamin E supplement would help improve his recovery. He wants your input on the supplement. What should you tell him?
a.Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin and excess supplemental consumption beyond what is attained in a healthy diet could increase health risks
b.Vitamin E supplementation is a good idea because it is water-soluble and any excess will be excreted
c.Vitamin E supplementation provides the body with no benefits and should not be consumed
d.Vitamin E deficiency is very common so supplementation is warranted to 400 IU
a


What is the recommended protein intake for a 32 year-old male client performing a structured 8-week hypertrophy program?
a.0.8-1.0 g/kg of body weight
b.1.0-1.2 g/kg of body weight
c.1.6-2.0 g/kg of body weight
d.2.2-3.0 g/kg of body weight
c


Which of the following is considered an antioxidant?
a.Vitamin E
b.Magnesium
c.Calcium
d.Vitamin D
a


All of the following are fat-soluble vitamins, except?
a.Vitamin C
b.Vitamin K
c.Vitamin A
d.Vitamin D
a


What energy-yielding nutrient is most important for supporting all types of physical activity?
a.carbohydrates
b.protein
c.fat
d.minerals
a


Baked goods and fast foods often contain ______________ which can both elevate bad cholesterol levels in the blood and lower good cholesterol.
a.monounsaturated fatty acids
b.polyunsaturated fatty acids
c.omega-6 fatty acids
d.trans fatty acids
d


Which of the following statements is inaccurate regarding dietary supplements?
a.supplement companies are solely responsible for regulating their product's ingredients
b.the FDA does not evaluate the purity of ingredients listed on the label of supplements
c.all claims made by a supplement company must be backed by clinical research
d.regular consumption of multiple supplements may result in toxicity
c


Medical referral prior to participating in an exercise program is required for a body fat measure equaling:
a.Males - 15%; Females - 25%
b.Males - 20%; Females - 30%
c.Males - 25%; Females - 35%
d.Males - 30%; Females - 40%
d


Which body composition assessment would you want to avoid when assessing an individual with a large amount of muscle mass?
a.girth measurements
b.bioelectrical impedance
c.hydrostatic weighing
d.skinfold measurements
a


Your female client wants to start strength training but does not want to add muscle mass. Which of the following prescriptions will result in the lowest amount of lean mass gain when performed to volitional failure?
a.Heavy weight (75-85% 1RM) machine training
b.Light weight (30-50% 1RM) total-body movements performed in circuits
c.Moderate weight (65-75% 1RM) using free-weight supersets
d.Mod-heavy weight (70-80% 1RM) compound movements
b


If your client is not properly hydrated, which body composition technique would be most affected?
a.bioelectrical impedance
b.DEXA scan
c.skinfold assessment
d.near infrared scan
a


What is the major health concern for females who become too lean?
a.dizziness during exercise
b.hypotension
c.amenorrhea
d.decreased VO2max
c


If a new exerciser works out twice per week with an exercise professional, what is a reasonable weight loss goal per week assuming the caloric expenditure is 250-300 kcal per hour?
a.½ pound
b.1 pound
c.2 pounds
d.5 pounds
a


When is a male considered obese?
a.BMI of 30
b.Body fat percentage >25%
c.Central girth measure >40 inches (102 cm)
d.All the above are indications
d


What calculation is needed to determine the caloric needs of an individual?
a.Resting Metabolic Rate
b.Heart Rate Reserve
c.Respiratory ratio
d.Waist-to-hip ratio
a


What is an appropriate increase in calories for adding muscle mass above a neutral caloric balance when bodybuilding?
a.50-100
b.120-200
c.500-750
d.750-1,000
b


When assessing body composition, which of the following is true concerning circumference (girth) measurements?
a.they do not account for subcutaneous fat storage
b.they are ideal for individuals who are very thin
c.they are not designed to be used for obese individuals
d.they have limited accuracy for individuals with large amounts of muscle mass
d


What type of exercise is most associated with improved body composition?
a.High-volume aerobic exercise
b.Low-volume aerobic exercise
c.High-volume resistance training
d.Low-volume resistance training
c


What exercise would be ideal for correcting forward shoulders?
a.Chest flies
b.One-arm row
c.Side raises
d.Triceps kick-backs
b


The stretch performed in the image is designed to increase the flexibility of which muscle?
a.deltoid
b.pectoralis major
c.triceps
d.subscapularis
d


What causes the acute increase in metabolic rate experienced after an anaerobic training session?
a.blood pooling
b.excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC)
c.metabolic equivalents (METs)
d.rate of perceived exertion (RPE)
b


What intensity should be recommended for reaching volitional fatigue when performing 10 repetitions of the bench press?
a.50% 1RM
b.65% 1RM
c.75% 1RM
d.90% 1RM
c


If the intensity is consistent across all lifts, which exercise should be performed first in a training bout?
a.upright row
b.military press
c.side raise
d.bench press
d


Which of the following supersets represents a contrast set ?
a.bent-over row and bench press
b.barbell bicep curl and triceps pushdown
c.bench press and high-speed medicine ball chest passes
d.body squats and push-ups
c


What aerobic training intensity would be the recommended starting point for a 55 year-old client who was previously sedentary, overweight and deconditioned?
a.50-60% heart rate reserve
b.70-90% of heart rate max
c.16-18 on the Borg scale (RPE)
d.60-80% of VO2max
a


In order to account for a decreased frequency of training, what should be increased to minimize losses of strength and power?
a.circuit training
b.training intensity
c.training duration
d.carbohydrate and protein intake
b


Using the Karvonen formula, what is the target heart rate for your 38 year-old client who has a resting heart rate of 85 beats/min, if the goal is to have him exercise at 70% of heart rate reserve?
a.109 beats/min
b.143 beats/min
c.153 beats/min
d.194 beats/min
c


What is the consistent characteristic of all circuit training programs?
a.resistance-based exercises using machines
b.body weight movements performed at high speed
c.multiple exercises completed sequentially with transitional rest periods
d.alternating upper and lower body exercises
c


A decrease in the size of fast-twitch muscle fibers:
a.does not occur
b.is a potential negative result of high-volume aerobic training
c.occurs when strength training is performed less than 4 days/week
d.is a positive adaptation associated with speed training
b


Which of the following represents a cause for concern during a steady-state, aerobic training session?
a.heart rate exceeding 145 beats/min
b.systolic blood pressure exceeding 160 mmHg
c.significant increase in diastolic blood pressure
d.none of the above; all are normal responses
c


The body burns ____ kcals for each liter of oxygen consumed by cells during exercise.
a.5
b.7
c.9
d.10
a


Which of the following statements regarding hypertrophy training is accurate?
a.free weights are best because they require additional stability
b.rest intervals between sets should be at least two minutes to allow ATP to regenerate
c.machines are effective because they isolate the target muscle to maximize time-under-tension and motor unit recruitment
d.older clients should perform 12-15 repetitions to maximize gains
c


Use of the pyramid system would be ideal for which of the following clients?
a.a beginner looking to lose weight and maximize caloric expenditure
b.an individual seeking power gains through plyometrics
c.an athlete seeking to refine sport-specific movement patterns
d.a trained individual looking to maximize strength gains in a compound lift
d


________ is a measurement of the body's ability to extract oxygen from blood.
a.cardiac output
b.(a-v)O2 difference
c.stroke volume
d.ejection fraction
b


When exercising at high altitudes the amount of oxygen bound to hemoglobin decreases; what is a common physiological response to this environmental change?
a.increased max heart rate
b.increased (a-v)O2 difference
c.increased heart rate responses
d.increased metabolic rate
c


While the nervous system can improve strength measures within 2 weeks, adding muscle mass normally requires ______________ weeks of routine training.
a.2-3
b.5-7
c.8-10
d.Up to 12
b


In order to allow for proper recovery following a 5RM bench press, the rest interval before the next set should be at least ___________.
a.30 seconds
b.1 minute
c.2 minutes
d.5 minutes
c


What is the normal progressive overload for continued adaptations to avoid overtraining?
a.2-5%
b.6-9%
c.10-12%
d.Up to 15%
a


Which of the following devices is used to measure flexibility?
a.Sit-and-reach box
b.Goniometer
c.Inclinometer
d.All the above
a


When adding weight to a Bulgarian split squat, what would be the logical first location with a newer client?
a.Overhead with a medicine ball
b.Front loaded with a bar
c.Axial loaded with a bar
d.Side loaded with dumbbells
d


When the body is stabilized by external assistance during exercises such as a bench, it is termed a _______.
a.Open kinetic chain exercise
b.Open kinetic circuit exercise
c.Closed kinetic chain exercise
d.Closed kinetic circuit exercise
a


Which exercise would increase range of motion in the upper hamstrings?
a.Leg press
b.Bulgarian squat
c.Romanian deadlift
d.Nordic hamstring curls
c


Which component of an exercise program is used to bring the body back to baseline homeostasis?
a.warm-up
b.cool down
c.intervals
d.plyometrics
b


The principle of _________________ is defined by a new stress above what the body is accustomed.
a.Specificity
b.Progression
c.Overload
d.Programming
c


Which of the following muscles are targeted in the leg press?
a.Hamstrings
b.Glutes
c.Quadriceps
d.Abductors
c


Your client fails the shoulder flexion assessment test. What muscle is tight?
a.anterior deltoid
b.rotator cuff
c.latissimus dorsi
d.triceps
c


When designing an exercise program for a client who is focused on increasing lean mass, what is the ideal training intensity for each of the lifts to be performed?
a.40-50% 1RM
b.55-65% 1RM
c.70-85% 1RM
d.90-95% 1RM
c


Your client is jogging on the treadmill for 30 minutes. After about 6 minutes he reaches his target heart rate, which is maintained (fluctuates less than 5 beats/min) for the duration of the training. What type of training is your client performing?
a.steady-state training
b.interval training
c.circuit training
d.high-intensity training
a


What affect does the disease sarcopenia have on the body?
a.it decreases blood iron
b.it reduces nutrient absorption
c.it reduces force and power in skeletal muscle
d.it reduces bone mineral density
c


When utilizing the Borg rate of perceived exertion (RPE) 6-20 scale, what number corresponds with a training zone of 60-80% HRR?
a.7-10
b.12-14
c.15-18
d.>18
b


Clients diagnosed with type II diabetes will benefit most from what type of training due to its effects on blood glucose dynamics?
a.flexibility
b.resistance
c.aerobic
d.power
b


What is the correct course of action for a client who cannot perform any proper repetitions during normal assessments such as the push-up or pull-up protocol?
a.Require a medical referral prior to exercise
b.Document the findings and recommend they start with aerobic exercise only
c.Select another assessment of strength they can complete safely
d.Skip the testing until they are capable of fitness measures
c


Which is commonly used as a predictor of risk for participation in an exercise program?
a.VO2 tests
b.Coordination tests
c.Body fat tests
d.Concussion protocol
c


When working with children it is particularly important to allow for adequate rest intervals and hydration due to their _______________.
a.reduced ability to regulate body temperature
b.lack of focus and attention to instruction
c.inability to use the phosphagen system
d.lack of coordination from immature neural function
a


Which of the following would be the most appropriate focus of an exercise prescription for a 10 year-old?
a.emphasize strength training
b.focus on full range movement and motor learning
c.use agility and speed training to promote coordination
d.only use aerobic training
b


Older clients are more likely to demonstrate which movement limitation when compared to younger clients?
a.elbow flexion
b.spinal extension
c.knee extension
d.hip flexion
b


While it is important to maximize VO2 before age 30, after age 65 it is most important to ensure adequate ______.
a.body composition
b.agility
c.muscular fitness
d.sun exposure
c